# THIS IS MY ARTIST STATEMENT - MY "WHY"
Link: [https://connected-characters-test.herokuapp.com/](url)

Conceptually, the idea behind this project was for a community artistic project that everyone would be able to contribute to. Out of some initial ideas, the concept of a complex social relationship of different characters where each character was created by the users stood out.

I believed that this idea would be one of the best representations of the ideas of this lab, that is live and evolving community collaboration on a project. In my opinion, a fictional artistic project such as this would be the best way for people to voluntarily contribute. I think that if this project was more polished and more widely available, it could support different users in different "communities" of characters, roughly representing different fictional worlds. Emergent social behaviour is also a reality here - more users might write their newly-created characters to have some kind of relationship with characters that they especially liked (or disliked), causing popular and well-known characters to be more connected to and visually more obvious on the map through the number of connections to them. This might draw a user's attention towards already popular characters, connecting between them based on popularity and social connections in a very natural way. This could also present possibilities for interesting collaboration - for example, a group of friends might create a small collection of characters in a larger world, still nominally part of it but primarily separate and private, which could be compared to writing yourself into your favourite stories.

This form of organization does have some shortcomings. Aside from the obvious possibility of people creating characters to interfere with others, there is also a chance for artificial and illusory popularity - a character might not be well-known, but appear prominent on the map due to the number of "outgoing" connections that character has. In addition, unpopular characters with few interactions might get overlooked and doomed to obscurity, which can in a way replicate both fictional and real social systems and communities - most people likely spend relatively little time thinking about side characters in fiction, and about people who play a minor role in their real lives. The disadvantage of one, "public" perspective that everyone is forced to share means that a very real situation - one in which some people are considered unimportant to or unknown by society as a whole, but are still important to an individual - is rendered impossible. This is a serious drawback that might eventually mean the creation of a static and rigid community, unaccepting of change. 

I think that, despite the drawbacks, this remains an interesting idea for organization and for community-developed artistic projects. A complex system of interactions, and characters, pioneered in a community network such as this, could become the basis for a story or other similar project.
